.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii chuid.1
.\"
.TH CHUID 1 "Last Change: 8 May 2022"
.SH NAME
chuid \- a tool for fast, parallel change of UID's/GID's according to a provided list of 2-tuples.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chuid [-h] [-v] [-n] [-q] [-o]
.B [-t
.I # of threads
.B ] [-b
.I busy threshold
.B ] [-s 
.I interval
.B ] -i
.I input file
.B -d
.I directory file
.B -e
.I exclude file
.B -l
.I logdir
.SH DESCRIPTION
chuid scans all filesystems given in the directory file and checks each regular file, directory or link 
for UID and GID against the list of 2-tuples provided by the uidlist file. If there is a match
with one of the entries the UID/GID will be changed with the corresponding new UID/GID.
In all input files lines with a preceeding # or emtpy lines are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-i input file"
input file containing old-uid new-uid respectively old-gid new-gid tuples. Valid lines must
start with either 
.I u:
for a 2-tuple of UID's or with
.I g:
for a 2-tuple of GID's like
.I u:<old UID> <new UID>
or
.I g:<old GID> <new GID>
First ID is always old existing one and second ID is the replacement ID.
Lines starting with other characters will print a warning as well as lines
with more than two numbers or only one number.
.IP "-d directory file"
file containing root directories where changes should take place. One single absolute
directory path per line.
.IP "-e exclude file"
file containing directories/files to exclude from changes. Either one single absolute 
directory path or a single file name per line.
.IP "-l logdir"
logdir which will contain log output
.IP "-t # of threads"
number of threads (default 20)
.IP "-b busy threshold"
busy threshold for working threads out of allowed number of threads (default 0.9)
.IP -v
verbose mode
.IP -h
display short help
.IP -q
file systems will be traversed breath-first instead of depth-first
(default). Not recommended - can be used to bypass any caches for
benchmark reasons.
.IP -o
one stack version vs. two stack version (this allows a balancing if the
difference between the fastest and the slowest file source is big)
.IP -n
dry run - shows files to be changed, but do not touch filesystem
.IP "-s interval"
print progress statistics every
.I interval
seconds
.SH FILES
.I <logdir>/chuid_log
.RS
contains all log information.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to info@fkink.de.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Please see the log file for more information.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Hans Argenton and Fritz Kink
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2009-2022 
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There
is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" .SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" .BR chuid.conf (5)
.SH NOTES
chuid has to run with root permissions as it changes resource soft/hard limits for file 
descriptors to the maximum allowed. Also, this program assumes that it can access
(at least for reading) all data which have to be scanned.
